Readme.md, before:


# Enumerable

  Enumerable mixin.

```js
users
  .map('friends')
  .select('age > 20')
  .map('name.first')
  .select(/^T/)
```

## Installation

    $ component install component/enumerable

## Implementation

  Nearly all methods utilize the [to-function](github.com/component/to-function)
  component, which converts the argument passed to a function. For example
  `.map('name.first')` expands to a function effectively defined as `return obj.name.first`,
  likewise `.select(/^Tobi/)` expands to `return /^Tobi/.test(str)` and so on. For details
  check out to-function's Readme and familiarize yourself since all of that is applicable
  to Enumerable.

## API

  - [mixin()](#mixin)
  - [.each()](#eachfnfunction)
  - [.map()](#mapfnfunction)
  - [.select()](#selectfnfunctionstring)
  - [.unique()](#unique)
  - [.reject()](#rejectfnfunctionstringmixed)
  - [.compact()](#compact)
  - [.find()](#findfnfunction)
  - [.findLast()](#findlastfnfunction)
  - [.none()](#nonefnfunctionstring)
  - [.any()](#anyfnfunction)
  - [.count()](#countfnfunction)
  - [.indexOf()](#indexofobjmixed)
  - [.has()](#hasobjmixed)
  - [.reduce()](#reducefnfunctionvalmixed)
  - [.max()](#maxfnfunctionstring)
  - [.sum()](#sumfnfunctionstring)
  - [.first()](#firstnnumberfunction)
  - [.last()](#lastnnumberfunction)
  - [.inGroupsOf()](#ingroupsofnnumber)
  - [.at()](#atinumber)
  - [.value()](#value)

## mixin()

  Mixin to `obj`.

```js
 var Enumerable = require('enumerable');
 Enumerable(Something.prototype);
```

## .each(fn:Function)

  Iterate each value and invoke `fn(val, i)`.

```js
 users.each(function(val, i){

 })
```

## .map(fn:Function)

  Map each return value from `fn(val, i)`.

  Passing a callback function:

```js
 users.map(function(user){
   return user.name.first
 })
```


  Passing a property string:

```js
 users.map('name.first')
```

## .select(fn:Function|String)

  Select all values that return a truthy value of `fn(val, i)`.

```js
 users.select(function(user){
   return user.age > 20
 })
```


   With a property:

```js
 items.select('complete')
```

## .unique()

  Select all unique values.

```js
 nums.unique()
```

## .reject(fn:Function|String|Mixed)

  Reject all values that return a truthy value of `fn(val, i)`.

  Rejecting using a callback:

```js
 users.reject(function(user){
   return user.age < 20
 })
```


  Rejecting with a property:

```js
 items.reject('complete')
```


  Rejecting values via `==`:

```js
 data.reject(null)
 users.reject(toni)
```

## .compact()

  Reject `null` and `undefined`.

```js
 [1, null, 5, undefined].compact()
 // => [1,5]
```

## .find(fn:Function)

  Return the first value when `fn(val, i)` is truthy,
  otherwise return `undefined`.

```js
 users.find(function(user){
   return user.role == 'admin'
 })
```

## .findLast(fn:Function)

  Return the last value when `fn(val, i)` is truthy,
  otherwise return `undefined`.

```js
 users.findLast(function(user){
   return user.role == 'admin'
 })
```

## .none(fn:Function|String)

  Assert that none of the invocations of `fn(val, i)` are truthy.

  For example ensuring that no pets are admins:

```js
 pets.none(function(p){ return p.admin })
 pets.none('admin')
```

## .any(fn:Function)

  Assert that at least one invocation of `fn(val, i)` is truthy.

  For example checking to see if any pets are ferrets:

```js
 pets.any(function(pet){
   return pet.species == 'ferret'
 })
```

## .count(fn:Function)

  Count the number of times `fn(val, i)` returns true.

```js
 var n = pets.count(function(pet){
   return pet.species == 'ferret'
 })
```

## .indexOf(obj:Mixed)

  Determine the indexof `obj` or return `-1`.

## .has(obj:Mixed)

  Check if `obj` is present in this enumerable.

## .reduce(fn:Function, [val]:Mixed)

  Reduce with `fn(accumulator, val, i)` using
  optional `init` value defaulting to the first
  enumerable value.

## .max(fn:Function|String)

  Determine the max value.

  With a callback function:

```js
 pets.max(function(pet){
   return pet.age
 })
```


  With property strings:

```js
 pets.max('age')
```


  With immediate values:

```js
 nums.max()
```

## .sum(fn:Function|String)

  Determine the sum.

  With a callback function:

```js
 pets.sum(function(pet){
   return pet.age
 })
```


  With property strings:

```js
 pets.sum('age')
```


  With immediate values:

```js
 nums.sum()
```

## .first([n]:Number|Function)

  Return the first value, or first `n` values.

## .last([n]:Number|Function)

  Return the last value, or last `n` values.

## .inGroupsOf(n:Number)

  Return values in groups of `n`.

## .at(i:Number)

  Return the value at the given index.

## .value()

  Return the enumerable value.

## License

  MIT

Commit message:

count simply returns total number if no function supplied.

Readme.md, after:


# Enumerable

  Enumerable mixin.

```js
users
  .map('friends')
  .select('age > 20')
  .map('name.first')
  .select(/^T/)
```

## Installation

    $ component install component/enumerable

## Implementation

  Nearly all methods utilize the [to-function](github.com/component/to-function)
  component, which converts the argument passed to a function. For example
  `.map('name.first')` expands to a function effectively defined as `return obj.name.first`,
  likewise `.select(/^Tobi/)` expands to `return /^Tobi/.test(str)` and so on. For details
  check out to-function's Readme and familiarize yourself since all of that is applicable
  to Enumerable.

## API

  - [mixin()](#mixin)
  - [.each()](#eachfnfunction)
  - [.map()](#mapfnfunction)
  - [.select()](#selectfnfunctionstring)
  - [.unique()](#unique)
  - [.reject()](#rejectfnfunctionstringmixed)
  - [.compact()](#compact)
  - [.find()](#findfnfunction)
  - [.findLast()](#findlastfnfunction)
  - [.none()](#nonefnfunctionstring)
  - [.any()](#anyfnfunction)
  - [.count()](#countfnfunction)
  - [.indexOf()](#indexofobjmixed)
  - [.has()](#hasobjmixed)
  - [.reduce()](#reducefnfunctionvalmixed)
  - [.max()](#maxfnfunctionstring)
  - [.sum()](#sumfnfunctionstring)
  - [.first()](#firstnnumberfunction)
  - [.last()](#lastnnumberfunction)
  - [.inGroupsOf()](#ingroupsofnnumber)
  - [.at()](#atinumber)
  - [.value()](#value)

## mixin()

  Mixin to `obj`.

```js
 var Enumerable = require('enumerable');
 Enumerable(Something.prototype);
```

## .each(fn:Function)

  Iterate each value and invoke `fn(val, i)`.

```js
 users.each(function(val, i){

 })
```

## .map(fn:Function)

  Map each return value from `fn(val, i)`.

  Passing a callback function:

```js
 users.map(function(user){
   return user.name.first
 })
```


  Passing a property string:

```js
 users.map('name.first')
```

## .select(fn:Function|String)

  Select all values that return a truthy value of `fn(val, i)`.

```js
 users.select(function(user){
   return user.age > 20
 })
```


   With a property:

```js
 items.select('complete')
```

## .unique()

  Select all unique values.

```js
 nums.unique()
```

## .reject(fn:Function|String|Mixed)

  Reject all values that return a truthy value of `fn(val, i)`.

  Rejecting using a callback:

```js
 users.reject(function(user){
   return user.age < 20
 })
```


  Rejecting with a property:

```js
 items.reject('complete')
```


  Rejecting values via `==`:

```js
 data.reject(null)
 users.reject(toni)
```

## .compact()

  Reject `null` and `undefined`.

```js
 [1, null, 5, undefined].compact()
 // => [1,5]
```

## .find(fn:Function)

  Return the first value when `fn(val, i)` is truthy,
  otherwise return `undefined`.

```js
 users.find(function(user){
   return user.role == 'admin'
 })
```

## .findLast(fn:Function)

  Return the last value when `fn(val, i)` is truthy,
  otherwise return `undefined`.

```js
 users.findLast(function(user){
   return user.role == 'admin'
 })
```

## .none(fn:Function|String)

  Assert that none of the invocations of `fn(val, i)` are truthy.

  For example ensuring that no pets are admins:

```js
 pets.none(function(p){ return p.admin })
 pets.none('admin')
```

## .any(fn:Function)

  Assert that at least one invocation of `fn(val, i)` is truthy.

  For example checking to see if any pets are ferrets:

```js
 pets.any(function(pet){
   return pet.species == 'ferret'
 })
```

## .count(fn:Function)

  Count the number of times `fn(val, i)` returns true
  or, if no function supplied, return total number of values.

```js
 var n = pets.count(function(pet){
   return pet.species == 'ferret'
 })
```

## .indexOf(obj:Mixed)

  Determine the indexof `obj` or return `-1`.

## .has(obj:Mixed)

  Check if `obj` is present in this enumerable.

## .reduce(fn:Function, [val]:Mixed)

  Reduce with `fn(accumulator, val, i)` using
  optional `init` value defaulting to the first
  enumerable value.

## .max(fn:Function|String)

  Determine the max value.

  With a callback function:

```js
 pets.max(function(pet){
   return pet.age
 })
```


  With property strings:

```js
 pets.max('age')
```


  With immediate values:

```js
 nums.max()
```

## .sum(fn:Function|String)

  Determine the sum.

  With a callback function:

```js
 pets.sum(function(pet){
   return pet.age
 })
```


  With property strings:

```js
 pets.sum('age')
```


  With immediate values:

```js
 nums.sum()
```

## .first([n]:Number|Function)

  Return the first value, or first `n` values.

## .last([n]:Number|Function)

  Return the last value, or last `n` values.

## .inGroupsOf(n:Number)

  Return values in groups of `n`.

## .at(i:Number)

  Return the value at the given index.

## .value()

  Return the enumerable value.

## License

  MIT
